Let's look at Matthew 1129 in its entirety.
It comes after Jesus made a rather profound statement in verse 27.
Do you have that Matthew 1127?
Jesus said, All things have been handed over to me by my Father
and no one fully knows the Son except the Father.
Neither does anyone fully know the Father except the Son.
But then he adds, And anyone to whom the Son is willing to reveal him.
Isn't that profound?
Part of Jesus' mission in coming to the earth was to more clearly reveal Jehovah's thinking and personality.
Now with that thought in mind, let's read verse 29.
Take my oak upon you and learn from me.
For I am mild tempered and lowly in heart.
And you will find refreshment for yourselves.
Verse 30 has the detail for my oak is kindly and my load is light.
I think we all know what it means being mild tempered.
But what about lowly in heart?
Well, our study notes explain that that means humble and unpretentious.
Now what can we glean if we magnify verse 29?
Well, let's start with the yoke.
That's a neck yoke depicted on screen.
And I think we can often picture two animals yoke together.
In this case, it's a head yoke.
By the look on the cattle's faces, they don't seem particularly thrilled to be yoke together like that.
But it allows them to unitedly pull in the same direction and accomplish a common task.
However, Jesus said in verse 30, my oak is kindly.
Some farmers kindly padded the yoke for that purpose.
Jesus' yoke is comfortable for us.
But you notice in the verse, he said, take my yoke.
What are we to understand from that?
Well, insight offers two possibilities.
The first is if Jesus' yoke is one that Jesus or Jehovah places on Jesus,
then that signifies that others can get under the yoke with Jesus and he'll assist them.
But the second possibility.
If Jesus' yoke refers to one that Jesus puts on us,
then the reference is that we submit to his authority and direction as his disciples.
The September 2019 watch tower alludes to those same two possibilities.
Now the yoke is an illustration.
Our publications have applied it to Jesus putting his yoke on us.
Let's extend the illustration a little.
Farmers often train their oxen to respond to verbal commands so that they could keep their hands on the plow
and not have to deal with the reins and the plow.
The governing body could be likened to the voice of Jesus, the head of the congregation.
So when we willingly submit the faithful slave, we're ultimately submitting to Jesus' authority and direction.
And that nicely harmonizes with Matthew 28, 18 through 20.
You recall Jesus had considerable authority as a human on earth.
But looking at the context of Matthew 28, 18,
Jesus words here were spoken after he was resurrected to the spirit life.
Now you'd not yet ascended to his father,
but since Jehovah spoke to him as a human,
likely he communicated with Jesus immediately after his resurrection
because that was the ultimate sacrifice for mankind.
So now the resurrected Jesus says in Matthew 28, 18,
all authority, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
Well, back to Matthew 1129.
It says, if we take that yoke,
we will find refreshment for ourselves.
That sounds wonderful, doesn't it?
Relaxing, luxurious, sweet refreshment.
But that's not the intent.
A yoke does not represent a vacation.
A yoke in and of itself implies work.
A farmer does not put cattle in a yoke
and send them out to graze in a refreshing pasture.
He puts them in a yoke to accomplish work.
Well, Jesus now has authority in heaven.
So the resurrected anointed one's refreshment
does not mean floating on a cloud, strumming a harp
as Christendom sometimes suggests.
Jesus' personality did not change when he went to heaven
and a yoke refers to meaningful work,
but Jesus is mild tempered,
so that work is kindly and refreshing.
And just think of the near future.
Try to imagine all of the anointed following
in Jesus' direction at Armageddon.
They're going to assist in dismantling
Satan's entire wicked system.
That is work.
But since it's under Jesus' direction,
that work is refreshing.
It's invigorating.
It's fulfilling.
And for those of us on earth,
refreshment does not mean lounging
in our favorite easy chair with the beverage of our choice.
We have work to do.
But the yoke is padded.
It's kindly.
We don't chafe under it.
Jesus is mild tempered.
Now, back to Matthew 1129,
did you notice Jesus said,
and learn from me?
Why did he include those words?
The sentence would have made perfect sense without them.
But he specifically said, and learn from me.
Now, why might that be significant?
Well, what about contrast?
Who had Jesus' followers learn from all their lives?
It was the religious leaders of the day.
What a contrast between their attitude and personality
when compared with Jesus.
Matthew 23, please.
His disciples have learned from the scribes and Pharisees,
and so they had picked up a flaws in their attitude and personality.
And as we read Matthew 23, 4,
please allow Matthew 1130 to be ringing in your ear.
Do you recall?
Jesus said,
My load is light.
Well, what had the disciples learn previously
from the religious leaders, 23, 4?
They bind up, not light,
but heavy loads,
and put them on the shoulders of men.
And if you glance at verse 5,
you'll see that they'd like to piously be seen by men.
They'd like the most prominent seats and meals in the synagogue.
But now, verse 11,
Learn from Jesus.
He said,
But the greatest among you must be your minister.
Do you remember an entrenched personality flaw of the apostles?
They often defaulted,
and to argue about who's the greatest one among us.
They likely learned that
from the religious leaders, poor example.
So it makes sense in our text today that Jesus pleaded,
Learn from me.
And in fact, I am different.
Learn.
I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart.
While the Yoke of Jesus does definitely include disciple-making,
we need to learn Jesus in all aspects of Christian discipleship.
First, but you're 221.
It says,
He left a model for us to follow with steps closely.
That verse,
the context does not talk about the preaching work.
It's talking about dealing with suffering and interpersonal relationships.
For example, 3-1, it says,
In the same way as the model,
you wives be in subjection to your husband.
3-7.
It says,
In the same way,
husbands treat your wife.
In verse chapter 3, verse 8,
It's addressed to all of us interacting with one another.
It has four beautiful Christ-like qualities we need to display with one another.
Now it's true,
due to him perfection
and misunderstandings,
we all make mistakes.
But the baseline is.
Learn from Jesus,
including the fact that he was mild-tempered
and lowly in heart.